This works right but there's a few
problems I can hit the red stop sign to
stop my game, And
I can still move around, right?
Also if I wanted to have multiple
movements of like, head down and
to the right,
I couldn't do that right now,
because each one of these
is kind of independent.
Also, there's a bunch of other things,
like normally a game starts, it runs,
something happens and it stops, right?
And the way that we tend to do this
mechanic is what we call a game loop,
which is just simply, we,
when we start the game,
do whatever setup you need to do and
then jump in to the loop.
For those of us who might have to write
Javascript at some point in our life
is kind of like it runs the code and
throws you into an event loop.
And then things happen and
you go along your way as well.
Same basic idea, but
this is more fun than Javascript.
So what we can do there to create a game
loop is we just put a forever loop.
That's not really forever.
It's not like a wild true that's
gonna lock up the main thread.
It's like these do run on the event loop,
right, where it'll say like, run through
this and then put the next tick or
the next frame onto the event loop.
It's s kind of like, do it request
animation frame to the next one, or
set timeout zero, what have you.
And so we can run things over,
and over, and over again.
And so we'll have that kind of in place.
And now, what we could do, for instance,
if I just want to have them run forever,
right, we could take these out.
And we'll delete this one here.
So now I hit the green block,
and he's running right.
Maybe I make it wait a second or something
along those lines, but it's fine.
We're gonna say wait one second
in between cuz that's horrifying.
And this will keep running
as long as the game runs.
As you can see, it's a little weird though
because hitting one of those arrows
throw something else into a loop,
that event loop,
which means that those will take
precedence before we take again.
So we're probably gonna need to
get these into the loop as well.
We'll do that momentarily.
To stop the game, you hit the stop sign.
Awesome, and we can have a bunch
of stuff in place as well.
But let's get the movement
into the game loop as well.
And so the common way that you will
see this is instead of waiting for
one of these buttons to be pressed,
a lot of times what we'll
do is keep looping through.
Because we can tell what buttons
are currently being held down with
the sensing blocks.
So we'll go ahead and
we'll go to say, if I'm going
to do this over here for
a reason you'll see in a second.
We could say,
if a given key is pressed in this case,
we'll say if the right arrow is pressed,
Point in direction 90 and
move ten steps and then I'm very lazy.
So I'll duplicate that.
I'll say if the left arrow is pressed,
Then point in direction -90.
Same logic we had before.
And now in my loop,
I'm gonna zoom out just slightly because
it's getting a little crowded in here.
I can say as we go through the loop.
Check to see if either one of these
buttons are pressed, do the thing.
Let's actually get rid of that.
We don't need to wait a second anymore
because we go back to just change
the costume when he moves.
Okay, so
when the game starts We're gonna set
everything up the way it's supposed to be,
put Arnold wherever we want him to be.
And then once we've got everything
set up the way we want it,
we'll start the game loop,
which is if the right arrow is pressed,
we will point the direction 90 and
move him ten steps.
And if the left arrow is pressed,
we'll point in the direction -90,
move him ten steps.
Either way, we change the costume, right?
And there we go.
He's running around and
we've got both in place.
Now there are a bunch of, like this
isn't the only way to do movement.
Y'all have play Pac-Man.
Right, so Pac-Man, you hit a direction.
Pacman just keeps going.
Pac-Man you don't have to hold
the joystick in that direction.
You hit up on the joystick.
Pacman's gonna go until
Pacman hits the wall, right?
You hit right.
Pacman's gonna go until Pacman hits wall
or a ghost or something along those lines.
And that's where the what
mechanic do you want?
Affects what kind of code you might write.
So for instance, if we wanted that
kind of mechanic in this place,
we could just simply say, hey,
when they press the key point,
I'm gonna give him direction, right?
But then no matter what, move them.
So in this case,
I can take my hand off the keyboard, and
he'll keep going in that given direction.
No one of those is more
right than the other,
it's about what mechanic do you want.
Do you want the mechanic where they
have to press and hold the key?
Or do you want the mechanic where they
press it once to change the direction, but
the character keeps going?
Both are equally right depending
on what kind of effect and
what kind of game you're trying to create.
In our case though, I'm going to
go back to the way things were.
And I'll put things in here,
but both are okay.
Both are correct depending
on what we're trying to do.